>> What you have seen
I believe is real.
Why?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Because I did it myself.
>> In these episodes, we've
seen incredible energy masters
activating their qi, their life
force energy from all different
cultures around the world.
We've seen the
powers of the mind.
In this episode, we're going
to focus on the spiritual path.
After seeing all these different
cultures and practices,
instead of getting lost in
the 1,000 different techniques
that humanity has devised
to alter the brain,
alter the consciousness
or expand it,
communicating with the gods,
developing special abilities,
what are the common results?
And what are the common elements
of each of these practices?
The thousands of methods
that humanity has devised,
they all try to
do the same thing.
So the first thing that we need
to do, we need to disconnect.
We are locked inside our head.
Constantly interacting
with what we think,
what we say, what we want,
the past, present, and future.
Our thoughts, our
feelings, our emotion.
Me, me, me.
So what humanity has devised
is a series of practices
to shock you out of the system.
And so you go across the globe--
Africa, South America, Siberia,
China, India, Indonesia, Nepal,
doesn't matter.
The beginning of the spiritual
journey of the apprentice.
The first initiation,
it's snap out.
The first step of
every progress,
first, we need to
get out of the cave.
So in the moment that you
disconnect, first of all,
there is silence,
that famous stillness.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And then when there
is the silence,
there is that recognition
that I am not in anymore.
I am out.
For the first time, I am here.
The mind goes off.
So in the moment that
I am present, then
I more become aware of the
silence and of the stillness.
So those things are natural.
But to be able to master them
and to be able to replicate
them, that's a skill.
So that is a pivotal moment.
And so there is a whole
series of practices
that humanity has developed
to stand the state of silence
or to extend the
state of presence.
After you become present,
after you come out,
these incredible emotions
start to come through.
>> Right.
>> So the moments when
an amazing piece of music
or a sunrise or a sunset really
carries you out of yourself.
>> Touches your heart.
And there is an emotion.
That emotion further
brings you out of yourself.
And so that's the next step.
And so there are a whole
number of practices
that were aimed to develop
that sustained state
of emotional expansion.
It feels like all--
the energies of the
body are coming alive.
You feel potent,
you feel powerful.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So when the energy comes alive,
that's then another step.
We are able to enter
in this sustained state
of both receptivity
and projection.
We're like a radio that
can tune and we can
start to receive information.
You connect to your higher self,
you connect to the knowledge--
the mind of God, to
Buddha, whatever is it.
To the wisdom.
And so you start to
receive those one
as verbal information,
thoughts, images.
And that's then the
whole next step.
And so humanity has devised
thousands of practices
to decode this information.
To put them in order.
And the visions
that come with it,
and the symbols that you see,
and the sound that you hear.
And so from there,
the next point is,
you need to be able to see
and hear because you can't
work with what you don't see.
So the real next step,
in all these practices,
there is something that
happens so that you
start to have a vision.
Some kind of vision.
And again, here, there
is a whole another layer
of practice being created.
>> Yeah.
>> OK.
So when you start to
finally see yourself,
because what you
see is all yourself,
you think of not as what's
encased in this body
but you as that awareness
within which everything
appears-- you, I, this
Coliseum, and every other person
that might be in here.
So I like to say that your
mind revealed itself to you.
And that's experience
of light and luminosity,
the vision that it's common
to all spiritual, mystical
religious tradition.
The seers, the
visionary, they see.
Now that finally
you have seen, you
either/or move toward
the object that you
see-- your beloved, the
vision of God, all right?
The vision of yourself, of
your enlightened nature,
a vision of the other world.
You learn to move
towards it or you
learn to move that which
appears towards you.
When you can see and you
become one with what you see.
So that's the famous
experience of union,
of commune from where the
word religion came from.
Religion is in Latin.
It means [NON-ENGLISH],,
to reunite,
which is the same as
Sanskrit yoga, to yoke.
That literally means
to yoke, to reunite.
>> Amazing.
>> So that's really the
stage, and that's the stage
of the mystical union, is what
they call the [NON-ENGLISH]..
And that's a whole another
series of practices
that cultures, that humanity,
has developed there.
And know that it's
developed around that.
And then there are
still several steps.
The last step that
I show in the movie
it's the great transfer
where you have seen
and now you transfer
yourself there.
Of course, we do not really have
the proper word to describe it,
but it's a very, very unique
phenomenon, because when
you can really do that is the
famous separation of the soul,
if we so want to
call it, the spirit
from the case of the body.
And so you can really
transfer yourself,
this little limited
identity, David, Lee,
we can take it out of this case,
and it can merge and become
one and aware of that greater
identity within which we exist.
I want the world to see the map.
I want every one of you
to see, because after you
know what you really
should look for
and you see the existing
in all this culture,
the map is very clear.
And then what you
really are practicing
are not necessity the
disparate techniques and belief
system and religious
cultural baggages.
We are practicing the principle.
>> It seems like what you're
doing too is you're giving
people the view from the top of
the mountain to see the whole
landscape rather than just
one trail, one specific area.
>> Absolutely.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Spiritual path is different
than most journeys.
On most journeys,
you pack a bag,
you gather your belongings.
But along the path
of liberation,
to free our spirits, we're
going to do the opposite.
We're going to let go.
We're going to release
our baggage so that we
can be free and travel lightly.
In this episode, David
meets Karma Yogi--
an Indian master who helps
David clear past conditioning,
old trauma, emotional
baggage, karma, if you will.
Let's take a look.
>> There are people that
really can dissolve into light.
>> Yeah.
>> The apotheosis of
Christianity, the resurrection,
the light body of Mount Tabor,
the [INAUDIBLE] of [INAUDIBLE]
Mountain, the Christian
yogis of Ethiopia,
the great mystics of Tibet.
We have some legends of
the Taoists doing this.
I've seen it.
It's real.
It's not just one
man that did it.
>> Right.
>> Every person potentially can.
And so and that one is the
famous stage of dissolution.
>> OK.
>> After you transferred, you
reunite, and then you dissolve.
And this dissolution
is very real.
Now, I am not there, I
have certain experiences.
>> Right.
>> OK.
So I cannot answer what then.
I need to take for face
value, the knowledge that is
passed in the oral tradition.
I think that one day quantum
mechanics and quantum physics
will give us intelligent,
interesting models I do not
have.
But I know that the
principles are universal.
That we do this other
ritual where I lay down
on this slab of stone.
That is what you need to do
in order to go to the Gate,
to fly.
What the hot air balloon
needs in order to fly.
You need to cut the
weight that hold you down.
>> Yeah, right.
>> And what are these weights?
It's what you hold.
It's your sorrows, your
pain, your guilt, your shame,
and your anger.
What really holds you back is
the narrative of your own mind.
The past that you
exist into with as many
separated entities.
This practice that is used
to cut, to dissolve, to let
go of all the things
that you are holding to,
which is nothing but yourself.
The narrative that you
give so much reality to.
And in the moment that you can
let them go, they let you go.
So the ghost of your past lets
you go as you let them go.
And this one is the
quintessential teaching
of the Buddha.
Then the soul can
emerge naturally
from the shadow of the body.
We think yoga.
Everybody knows Savasana--
the Corpse Pose.
Traditionally, this
pose is the pose
in which you practice the
abandonment of the body.
So Shiva, in the Hindu
culture lays down, OK?
And the Shakti-- the
spirit, the feminine you
see that triumphantly above him.
So in the moment that you have
abandoned the identification
with the body with the narrative
of identity, then finally,
the mind, the spirit is free.
So that's what that represents.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> We are still using studying
and discovering those core
principles, and I completely
let go of all my thoughts
and chiefly are the very sense
of ownership of this body.
We believe that we are a body,
we're under this illusion.
We don't know that we're into
the practice they call it,
giving before receiving.
You give up your limited
self that has been in a shape
in a form of the body and you
receive your infinite self.
And that is what is
free from the back.
Your past, your action.
Learning to stop
myself, my body.
All your karmic debtor and
creditor, they come back.
Until 300 years ago, our
ancestors were killing people.
It's all stored here.
>> Yeah, absolutely.
>> And in our life, many times,
we are willingly or unwillingly
you hurt people.
You have hurt them.
So they keep a tension, a
negative tension towards you.
They want something from you.
So you need to be able to
give it to them freely.
I say, I give you
what you really want.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SINGING]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> With Karma, we had a
very interesting story.
We met at the
airport in Thailand.
He came out of his retreat.
His guru just passed away
displaying the great miracles
of-- it's called the lesser,
the small rainbow body
where the body doesn't
completely dissolve
into the light but it shrinks.
And so his master
just passed away,
he came out of many,
many years of retreat.
And they invited him to some
monastery there in Thailand.
And he loses his
passport, his money,
so he was stranded
in the airport.
You don't really see
many lamas around there.
So we sort of stumble
into each other
and he's an incredibly
accomplished yogi.
It's called the cemetery
sadhana, the cremation ground
sadhana.
He spent nine years
in these practices.
Disconnecting,
cutting all the things
that keep you inside so that
you can finally come out.
So see, each one of
these people, there
is a story behind.
There are many stories.
The most important stories to
tell is what they exemplify.
>> OK.
So the culmination
of the movie really,
Gate, is really about
this dissolution
of who you identify
with, who you think
you are into expanding
into this higher
mind as the great superhuman.
>> Yeah.
All right.
Possible.
Every person has
the right to that.
And is also considered a
great insurance to that.
Because if you have learned,
if you have opened the highway
and you know how to go and where
to go, at the moment of that,
you are not afraid.
>> Because you're going
into another reality.
>> Because you know it.
You're ready.
And you know how to go.
You know how to go there.
>> Because through the
practice, you've been there.
And then you come back
with that experience.
>> Which is profoundly
transformative.
>> Right.
Right.
Because then you're
able to truly let
go and relax in this
life and enjoy this life.
>> Yes, because you already
died, you already came back.
Many times, not just once.
>> Right.
Well, thanks for the
explanation because this
covers so many topics--
from the supernatural,
to the spiritual,
to the powers of the mind,
to healing powers, all in one
journey.
>> Yeah.
And this seems to be
the journey of life.
>> Journey of a
lifetime, definitely.
>> Yeah.
Thanks my friend.
It's great.
>> Karma cleansing is a way
to let go of the old and come
into the present moment,
refreshed and expanded.
We can do this for ourselves.
We don't have to
always have a master
and help us clean our karma.
Are you ready to try a little
karma cleansing and letting
go of some stress or
tension or tightness?
In each and every moment, we
can let go of the unnecessary.
Here's what I want you to do.
I want you to take
a deep breath,
hold your hands
just by your face,
and we're going to
make a heart sound.
This sound is [VOCALIZING].
So you're just going
to [VOCALIZING]..
And you're not doing it
to make it sound pretty,
but you're doing it
for the vibration
and the vibration then helps
to clear stress, tension,
tightness, and harmonize
your energy field.
Think of your body
as an instrument
that we want tuned up so
that it's harmonious rather
than discordant.
Are you ready?
We're going to
take the hands up,
and we're going to make a sound.
[VOCALIZING]
As you do this, you just
glide your hands down
and three or four times,
you're going to feel this aah.
Release of, stress,
tension, and tightness.
Let's do it again.
[VOCALIZING]
And you want to feel
this nice, warm sensation
all the way down your body.
And whenever you need
a little clearing,
releasing of stress, tension,
old emotional energy,
you can do that sound.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
We're going to explore spirit.
Our true sense of who we are.
We've looked at the
map, we've traveled,
we've looked through the
lens of energy, and mind,
and consciousness, and
cleansing old energy to arrive
into the present moment.
And now, who are
we at our essence?
The Gate is a secret
practice, and it's
about opening up and
expanding our consciousness
about dislocating our
mind and becoming one
with the Buddha mind,
with the grand mind,
with the infinite field.
So David opens this point,
and through this ritual,
when the point actually
opens, the skull
opens you could put a plate of
grass right into this point.
It's quite extraordinary.
But think about how we
come into this world.
As babies, this point is open.
Our consciousness and our
spirit, our minds and bodies
are fusing together.
And as we get older,
the skull closes.
But through Gate, they open
that point back up again
and they allow the
spirit, the consciousness
to travel and connect
to the universal wisdom.
Think of this as traveling
to the top of the mountain
and having a grand
view, a vista,
of seeing what
life is all about.
Then when we come back,
we've got that experience
of an expanded vision and we
can bring that into daily life.
And what this allows us to do
is to relax a little bit more.
That we know where we come
from, our true source.
And we can travel
the rest of the road
with lightness and levity,
a liberated spirit.
>> Since we were sort of
interested in the extreme ends
of things.
>> Yeah.
Definitely.
>> Have you had
experience with people,
with the grass in the head
and this idea of Gate?
>> Again, being based as
I was for over 20 years
in the Kathmandu Valley, I went
to meet one of the great Bon
masters, this Tenzin Nimya.
And when I went
to see him, there
was a mother and a
daughter who had just
finished to attend the
retreat after having received
the initiation into this Phowa
practice, this transference
of consciousness.
And as I was having my
conversation with this lama,
the women bowed over
and he stuck grass
into the tops of their heads.
I mean, a straw about this long.
I was like, what
was all that about?
So this was just
real confirmation
that these things are
not just metaphors.
So some of the miracles that
you hear about in the texts
and which are recounted
in oral tradition,
I've learned a lot from
David in that through.
He's investigated this not only
in other Buddhist traditions
as well, but also
among the Sufis,
for example, and
Turkey where, again,
is opening up as it were
at the central channel
beyond the body.
This is not something you
just do at the end of life.
It's actually to regain
the human capacity
to be able to move
between the light realms
and the physical realm.
We really want to
achieve this while we're
alive to feel that
we are not limited
to one single dimension,
but we can actually
move between dimensions.
And to me, that seems
to parallel even
what we hear in other early
religious traditions, what's
coded even within Christianity.
This whole idea of being able
to move between dimensions
freely, which is something
we as human beings
have somewhat lost
the capacity for.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The question of the SkyGate,
the transfer of consciousness.
>> That was the last piece of
the puzzle of my journey that
superseded everything else
that I researched before.
Now traditionally,
this practice is
done at the end of a
three-year retreat.
That means that you
have, for three years, 12
to 15 hours of very
intense practices.
Every single day,
there is no day off.
Three years of that.
And at the end, you unlock
one by one vertically,
the famous chakras.
And when the last
one opens, there
is this very physical
opening, right?
Where your skull opens up.
You co-share that
mind for however
briefly because you
have an omniscient mind.
If the practice
is good, the stalk
will depend on the level
of the practitioner.
For yogis, is actually-- is
a fairly thick like incense
thick.
>> OK.
Yeah.
>> All right.
>> And it can go in quite deep.
The interesting part of
the practice is twofold.
One that it is considered the
great insurance of the death.
You seal all the other
gates of the body
so that your
consciousness-- so to bypass
the need of
reincarnation, bypass
the need of going
through purgatory,
let's say, of these
transitory experiences
when you are in between
one life and another.
So there is also
this great confidence
that practitioners have.
They have a sign that is
both internal, that there
is a natural event at the
level of their awareness
of the consciousness
which gives them
a knowledge-- a direct knowledge
that there is somewhere else
to go that is completely
independent from the reality
of this body.
Very recently, we
started to think
of the possibility of
uploading our mind, our self,
our identity into
either a synthetic mean
through the advent of
artificial intelligence
to an actual robotic
form, or through cloning,
to upload our consciousness
into a cloned human being.
Many people still laugh at
these things as if fairy tales
whereas actually it's not.
>> Yeah.
>> They are investing
big time and big money.
And this will be a
reality very soon.
Just a few decades
away, even less.
So looking at
these, there exists
a knowledge and a tradition
that is a tried and true--
>> Yeah.
>> --of people that have
learned to upload their identity
and their conscious into
very complex light forms.
The famous idea of
the body of light.
As a society, if
we start to look
at these things a little more
seriously and empirically,
give people the chance to
practice this, we would have,
very soon, a generation of
people that, first of all,
arrives at the moment
of death without fear
or having a better understanding
of what comes after.
Not having a fear of death, the
sense that that is just simply
passing through a door as a
transition of simply shedding
a layer and then dressing up in
another one that we just simply
cannot see or
comprehend from here.
It would change greatly
how we then perceive life
and how we leave.
>> Absolutely.
It's a really interesting blend.
This idea of uploading
your consciousness
into an AI or a virtual reality
or these ancient technologies
of uploading it into
the Buddha mind.
>> How do we make this relevant?
Let me teach you
a little exercise
to help you connect
to the SkyGate.
What we're going
to do is take our,
energy we've generated
some energy in our hands.
We also have learned how to move
and guide or direct our minds.
We're going to bring
our minds and our energy
to this point on
the top of the head.
It's straight up from
your ears and straight
back from your nose.
This point here
is the culmination
of all the energy of the body.
Put your middle finger on
that point, breathe into it
and focus your mind here.
Focus your mind as you breathe.
This point is our divine
connection to a higher power.
It's where we get guidance.
It helps us to feel our
sense of purpose in life.
So hold your
attention there, press
in with your fingers a little
bit, take a deep breath.
And then release your
hands down to your sides.
Keep your attention on
the crown of your head
and have that sense
that the whole opens up.
You can even imagine the
canopy of stars above your head
and all that divine
light, the connection
to the great mystery
of the universe.
Breathe into that and feel
that something touches
you on that point.
Call it light, spirit,
a soulful connection.
Your personal connection to the
divine wisdom of the universe.
Let it flow through
you, breathe it in,
and have that
sense of connection
to life's deeper mysteries
as they flow through you.
Wonderful.
Becoming superhuman
takes some practice.
It's like watering a garden.
You water those internal seeds
until they start to take root,
start to take shape.
Now, use these masters
to help to nurture
the seeds of potential
that are within you.
Now, go back to these
exercises that we have learned.
How to activate energy,
how to focus the mind,
how to connect to the divine,
and bring them into your life.
Review those exercises.
Practice them with your
friends, your kids, your family,
your spouse, your grandmother,
bring those in to reality.
Your reality.
Because what you focus your
mind on changes reality
as we've seen.
And what the SkyGate teaches us
is to bring in loving kindness,
compassion so that we can be
an agent of positive change
in the world.
Let's bring heaven
here on Earth.
And we've been asking this very
important inquiry, who am I?
Now this question isn't
necessarily something
to answer because
life is mysterious,
but an inquiry helps us to
feel a sense of guidance.
It's a guiding light into a
direction that we want to take.
Who am I?
I am something much more
than just this physical body
with these emotions
and these thoughts.
You're a spirit
in physical form.
Now, let's go meet David
as he meets up with Chung,
a Tibetan Buddhist master who's
going to teach him of SkyGate.
>> Before going to retreat
for these six years,
I will ask you to please
try to get a pearl--
of wisdom that will endure
time of what would you leave?
>> It was only through the grace
of my guru in Korea who took me
a lifetime to understand.
I've always been searching
for very technical,
to a certain extent,
and very practical ways
to enact the very first step.
We need to disconnect.
We are locked inside our heads.
Constantly interacting with
what we think, what we say,
what we want, the past, present,
and future, our thoughts,
our feeling, our--
Across the globe-- Africa, South
America, Siberia, China, India,
Indonesia.
The first initiation
is snap out.
From very traumatic,
very extreme to less.
And then when there
is the silence,
there is that recognition
that, I am not in anymore.
I am out.
For the first time, I am here.
The mind goes off.
>> Finally, I understood
this teaching of the Buddha.
The very structure of the
mandala with the four gates
that lead toward the
center of the mandala,
so they are the very
representation of one
of the very core
teachings that the Buddha
gave to his own son, Rahula.
The Buddha is remembered as
a rebel who literally changed
the world in his own way.
But not many people think of him
as a terrible father and a very
irresponsible person.
He was married.
He had a child,
small child, and he
was the head of a kingdom
with an old father.
And he suddenly said,
no, enough of this.
The over-privileged
child that needs
to rebel against his
upbringing and he
said, I'm going
to become a monk.
And he left his luxury life
in the palace, concubines,
the wife, children,
responsibility of the kingdom
and he went off to the jungle.
The jungle.
To the jungle.
Rahula.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Rahula logically grew up with
resentment, anger toward a man
who abandoned him.
And when he met
his father again,
his father was
not a man anymore.
He was the awakened one.
We can't even picture
or imagine what
this meeting would be about.
A very conflicted
young man meeting
the father who abandoned
him and then in the moment
that he meets him,
he sees something
in the eyes of this being
that it's not of this world
anymore, right?
Well, unluckily we
don't know the details
of the story, which I
like to fill in in my mind
but what we know is
that the Buddha gave
to Rahula a teaching
which became
one of the pillars of Dharma.
This teaching is called
the Brahma-viharas,
the abodes of creation.
Brahma means the
creator or the creation.
And those are the four
entrances of the mandala.
And what are the Brahma-viharas?
The Brahma-vihara
is a practice--
the ultimate practice
to move out of the cave.
Is the emotion from
Latin, exmotus, that which
moves you from to.
From a state of
containment, of limitation.
You are locked into your
resentment, your anger,
your hatred, your
fear towards--what?
First, the Buddha said love,
kindness, mercy, forgiveness,
compassion, peace, joy.
And this is the quotation
that he gave to his son.
Now, not many people
understand that.
But the very core
teaching of this practice
was actually practice of
emotion because practicing
the Brahma-viharas to enter
into the abode of the creator,
to enter into the
abode of creation
is not just an
analytical reflection
on love and compassion.
It is to cultivate this emotion
until it bubbles up inside--
exmotus-- and it transports
you out of the cave.
A lot of people they
ask me, is superhuman
doing all these magical feats?
And I keep telling, no.
Superhuman is
understanding the steps
that every person
can take, and only
when you go through
all the steps.
It's like a chemical
formula, and you
have the result at the end.
If you put all the elements
in the right order,
in the right sequence, and
they combine and there is
a reaction, and that
is [NON-ENGLISH];;
is the result of
practicing these emotions,
and that result is the
definition of superhuman.
[MUSIC PLAYING]